So you have seen all the primitive types
in JavaScript. Now let's look at the reference types.
In the reference types category, we have objects, arrays, and
functions. In this lecture we're going to explore objects, and you will
learn about arrays and functions later in this section. So,
what is an object. An object in JavaScript and other
programming languages is like an object in real life. Think of a
person. A person has name, age, address
and so on. These are the properties of a person.
You have the same concept in JavaScript. So when we're dealing
with multiple related variables, we can put these
variables inside of an object. For example, here we
have two variables name and age, they're highly
related, they are part of the representation of a person, so instead of
declaring two variables, we can declare the person object.
And then instead of referencing these two variables we can
just reference the person object, it makes our code cleaner.
So, let's see how we can declare a person object. We start with let.
Or const if we don't want to reassign the person
object, and set it to an object
literal. So the syntax we have here use curly braces is what we call
an object literal. Now
between these curly braces we add one or more key value
pairs. So, the keys are what we call the
properties of this object. In this case we want this person
object to have two properties or keys, name and age,
so, we add name here, that's the key, then we add
a colon, and after that we set the value
so Mosh. Now, we add a comma, and
add another key value pair. Age 30
so now we have this person object with two properties or two
key value pairs name and age. And with that we
don't need these two variables. Now let's
log person on the console.log,
person. Save the changes.
So here's our person object, again note the object literal syntax
so we have curly braces, and in between them we have
one or more key value pairs, and these are the properties of the person object.
Now, there are two ways to work with these
properties. Let's say we want to change the name of this person,
so we need to access the name property. There are two ways,
the first way is what we call the .notation.
So, we add the name of our object in the name of this person,
.now you can see it's properties, age, and
name. So you can change the name of to
John. Now we can choose the .notation
to also read the value of a property, so here
on line 10, instead of logging the person object we can log
it's name property. Save the changes, and
in the console we get John. The other way to
access a property is using bracket notation.
So, bracket notation.
So instead of . we use square brackets, and
we pass a string that determined the name of the target property
so single or double quotes, but single quotes are more
common. The name of the target property is name.
So, we can change that to let's say mary. Again
when reading that we can use the dot notation or the bracket notation.
If you save the changes, now we get mary on the console.
Now you might be asking, which approach is better?
Dot notation or bracket notation? Well as you can see,
dot notation is a bit more concise. It's shorter,
so that should be your default choice. However, bracket notation
has it's own uses, sometimes, you don't know the name of the
target property until the run time. For example, in our
user interface, the user might be selecting the name of the target property.
In that case, in the time of writing code, we don't
know what property we're going to access. That is going to be selected
at run time by the user. So we might have another variable somewhere else
like selection, that determines the name of
the target property that the user is selecting, and that
can change at run time. With this,
we can access that property using the bracket notation
in a dynamic way. So, we pass
selection here, and we get the same result. Now, if this
is confusing, don't worry, we're going to see this again in the future, as you gain more
experience with JavaScript. For now, just stick to the
dot notation, because that's cleaner and easier. Next we're going to look at
arrays.